---
title: "I'm a drug addict"
description: "Blueberries!"
---

> This is part three of a five-part series on **getting your 
> boogie on like a pro**. To begin with part one, 
> which explores *why* this is a good idea, click [here](#). 
> Or skip ahead to part [2](#), [3](#), [4](#), or [5](#).

Journo is a blogging program, with a few basic goals. To wit:

* Write in Markdown.
* Publish to flat files.
* Publish via Rsync.
* Maintain a manifest file (what's published and what isn't, pub dates).
* Retina ready.
* Syntax highlight code.
* Publish a feed.
* Quickly bootstrap a new blog.
* Preview via a local server.
* Work without JavaScript, but default to a fluid JavaScript-enabled UI.

You can install and use the `journo` command via npm: `sudo npm install -g journo`

... now, let's go through those features one at a time:


Getting Started
---------------

1. Create a folder for your blog, and `cd` into it.
2. Type `journo init` to bootstrap a new empty blog.
3. Edit the `config.json`, `layout.html`, and `posts/index.md` files to suit.
4. Type `journo` to start the preview server, and have at it.


Write in Markdown
-----------------

We'll use the excellent **marked** module to compile Markdown into HTML, and
Underscore for many of its goodies later on. Up top, create a namespace for
shared values needed by more than one function.

To render a post, we take its raw `source`, treat it as both an Underscore
template (for HTML generation) and as Markdown (for formatting), and insert it
into the layout as `content`.

```coffeescript
Journo.render = (post, source) ->
  catchErrors ->
    do loadLayout
    source or= fs.readFileSync postPath post
    variables = renderVariables post
    markdown  = _.template(source.toString()) variables
    title     = detectTitle markdown
    content   = marked.parser marked.lexer markdown
    shared.layout _.extend variables, {title, content}
```

A Journo site has a layout file, stored in `layout.html`, which is used
to wrap every page.

```coffeescript
    loadLayout = (force) ->
      return layout if not force and layout = shared.layout
      shared.layout = _.template(fs.readFileSync('layout.html').toString())
```

Determine the appropriate command to "open" a url in the browser for the
current platform.

```coffeescript
    opener = switch process.platform
      when 'darwin' then 'open'
      when 'win32' then 'start'
      else 'xdg-open'
```